modules/ROOT/pages/add-remove-headers-concept.adoc, before:

= About Add Request/Response Headers, Remove Request/Response Headers
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: header, policy

API Manager supports several policies for injecting or removing HTTP headers from a request or response. The policies take effect before sending the request or response.

The add request header policy injects one or more headers into a request from the client to the backend service, or overrides the value of an existing header.
The remove request header policy prevents receipt of one or more specified headers sent from the client to the backend service.

The add response header policy injects one or more headers into a response from the backend service to the client, or overrides the header value in a response from the backend service.
The remove response header policy prevents inclusion of one or more specified headers in a response from the backend service to the client.

== See Also

* xref:add-remove-headers.adoc[Add/Remove Headers]

Commit message:

import files for component api-manager@2.x

modules/ROOT/pages/add-remove-headers-concept.adoc, after:

= Custom Policy Examples
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

The add or remove header policies, available on Anypoint Exchange, are examples of custom policies. Follow the step-by-step procedures to download and look at the code. This topic and subtopics cover the downloading, set up, and how to apply these policies.

To download add or remove header policies:

. Login to Anypoint Platform and go to Exchange.
. Search for and download the following assets from Exchange:
+
* Add Request Headers Policy
+
* Remove Request Headers Policy
* Add Response Headers Policy
+
* Remove Response Headers Policy
+
. Unzip each policy archive.

An XML and yaml file appears in each of the folders created by unzipping the archives. For example, the add-request-header-policy folder contains the following files:

* add-request.xml
* add-request.yaml

You use these files to set up the policy as described later.


== See Also

* xref:exchange::to-download-an-asset.adoc[To Download an Asset from Exchange]
