modules/ROOT/pages/add-api-alert-task.adoc, before:

= Add API Alerts for Mule Gateway or Service Mesh
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

To track and manage APIs, you can add one or more API alerts to your API instances. Add different xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[types of alerts] based on your requirements. 

For APIs using Mule Gateway or Service Mesh as their runtime, follow the steps in this tutorial to add alerts to your APIs. 

You cannot add Policy Violation alerts to xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[automated policies].

NOTE: This tutorial is for Mule Gateway and Service Mesh runtimes. To add alerts to APIs using Flex Gateway as their runtime, see xref:gateway::flex-use-api-alerts.adoc[Add API Alerts for Flex Gateway].

[[mule-gateway]]
== Add API Alerts for Mule Gateway or Service Mesh
To add an API alert to a Mule Gateway or Service Mesh API:

. Navigate to *API Manager > API Administration* and click the API instance for which you want to add an alert.
. From the left navigation panel, click *Alerts > Add alert*.
. Specify the alert options:
* *Name*: 
+
Type an alert name, for example `trial-alert`.
* *Enabled*: 
+
The default option is *Enabled*.
+
You can delete an alert anytime if not required.
* *Severity*: 
+
Select a severity for the alert, for example, *Info*.
* *Alert type*: 
+
Select the type of alert to create, (for example, *Request Count*) and provide appropriate alert configuration values. For information about alert types, see xref:using-api-alerts.adoc#api-alerts[API Alerts].
+
[TIP]
====
In the *For at least* and *consecutive period(s) of* fields, enter a value in the range of 1 - 999999999 to specify the time interval as a https://www.techopedia.com/definition/869/sliding-window[sliding window^].
====

. Select *Recipients*.
+
Specify what emails receive the email notification.

. Click *Create Alert*.


== See Also

* xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Review Alerts Concepts]
* xref:gateway::flex-use-api-alerts.adoc[Add API Alerts for Flex Gateway]

Commit message:

Add alert name unique validation in doc

modules/ROOT/pages/add-api-alert-task.adoc, after:

= Add API Alerts for Mule Gateway or Service Mesh
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

To track and manage APIs, you can add one or more API alerts to your API instances. Add different xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[types of alerts] based on your requirements. 

For APIs using Mule Gateway or Service Mesh as their runtime, follow the steps in this tutorial to add alerts to your APIs. 

You cannot add Policy Violation alerts to xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[automated policies].

NOTE: This tutorial is for Mule Gateway and Service Mesh runtimes. To add alerts to APIs using Flex Gateway as their runtime, see xref:gateway::flex-use-api-alerts.adoc[Add API Alerts for Flex Gateway].

[[mule-gateway]]
== Add API Alerts for Mule Gateway or Service Mesh
To add an API alert to a Mule Gateway or Service Mesh API:

. Navigate to *API Manager > API Administration* and click the API instance for which you want to add an alert.
. From the left navigation panel, click *Alerts > Add alert*.
. Specify the alert options:
* *Name*: 
+
Type an alert name, for example `trial-alert`.
+
The alert name must be unique per environment
* *Enabled*: 
+
The default option is *Enabled*.
+
You can delete an alert anytime if not required.
* *Severity*: 
+
Select a severity for the alert, for example, *Info*.
* *Alert type*: 
+
Select the type of alert to create, (for example, *Request Count*) and provide appropriate alert configuration values. For information about alert types, see xref:using-api-alerts.adoc#api-alerts[API Alerts].
+
[TIP]
====
In the *For at least* and *consecutive period(s) of* fields, enter a value in the range of 1 - 999999999 to specify the time interval as a https://www.techopedia.com/definition/869/sliding-window[sliding window^].
====

. Select *Recipients*.
+
Specify what emails receive the email notification.

. Click *Create Alert*.


== See Also

* xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Review Alerts Concepts]
* xref:gateway::flex-use-api-alerts.adoc[Add API Alerts for Flex Gateway]
