modules/ROOT/pages/analytics-chart.adoc, before:

= Reviewing API Manager Analytics Charts Usage
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

API Analytics provides a summary in chart form of requests, top apps, and latency for 1 hour, 3 hours, 1 day, 7 days, 1 month, 3 months, or 1 year. This data is available for 30 days. To view the Analytics chart, in API Manager, click the instance name of a deployed API.

*Note:* To view Analytics charts, users need View APIs Configuration permission. See xref:environment-permission-task.adoc[To Set Permissions].

== Reviewing Requests Summary Chart

The requests summary chart lists the total number of requests to your API by the duration you choose. The chart shows the HTTP status codes specified by W3C. For example:

image::analytics-request.png["Requests June 1,2017"]

Graph lines are provided for:

* Green - Successful requests that returned a status code from 1xx to 3xx.
* Dark Gray - Client failed requests that returned a status code of 4xx.
* Blue - Server failed requests that returned a status code of 5xx.

== Reviewing Top Apps Summary Chart

The top apps summary chart lists the number of requests made to the API by each application for the top 5 applications calling that API. Each color represents one of the top 5 applications accessing the API. The y-axis plots the number of calls made to the API.

The graph lists the number of requests over the duration you select, for example:

image::analytics-top-apps.png[]

== Reviewing Latency Summary Chart

The latency summary chart lists the average API latency for the period selected. The higher the latency, the lower the performance. The y-axis in the chart lists the average latency in milliseconds (ms).

The following example shows that worst average performance during the hour occurred at 8:30 am.

image::analytics-performance.png[Avg Latency 2.74k]

== Including Policy Violations in Charts

*Note:* Users must have the View Policies permission set to view policies or edit a Policy Violation alert.

Enable or disable the tracking of policy violations by checking the Include Policy Violations checkbox on an Analytics chart screen. The chart shows traffic rejected, or not rejected, by a policy.

image::policy-violations-dashboard.png[]

== See Also

* xref:environment-permission-task.adoc[Setting permissions]

Commit message:

Updates to the image alt text in the analytics-chart topic

modules/ROOT/pages/analytics-chart.adoc, after:

= Reviewing API Manager Analytics Charts Usage
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

API Analytics provides a summary in chart form of requests, top apps, and latency for 1 hour, 3 hours, 1 day, 7 days, 1 month, 3 months, or 1 year. This data is available for 30 days. To view the Analytics chart, in API Manager, click the instance name of a deployed API.

*Note:* To view Analytics charts, users need View APIs Configuration permission. See xref:environment-permission-task.adoc[To Set Permissions].

== Reviewing Requests Summary Chart

The requests summary chart lists the total number of requests to your API by the duration you choose. The chart shows the HTTP status codes specified by W3C. For example:

image::analytics-request.png["Summary chart of the total number of requests for June 1, 2017, shown by one hour duration."]

Graph lines are provided for:

* Green - Successful requests that returned a status code from 1xx to 3xx.
* Dark Gray - Client failed requests that returned a status code of 4xx.
* Blue - Server failed requests that returned a status code of 5xx.

== Reviewing Top Apps Summary Chart

The top apps summary chart lists the number of requests made to the API by each application for the top 5 applications calling that API. Each color represents one of the top 5 applications accessing the API. The y-axis plots the number of calls made to the API.

The graph lists the number of requests over the duration you select, for example:

image::analytics-top-apps.png["Summary chart of requests for the top five applications for June 1, 2017, shown by one hour duration."]

== Reviewing Latency Summary Chart

The latency summary chart lists the average API latency for the period selected. The higher the latency, the lower the performance. The y-axis in the chart lists the average latency in milliseconds (ms).

The following example shows that worst average performance during the hour occurred at 8:30 am.

image::analytics-performance.png["A latency summary chart showing an average latency of 2.74k for a one hour duration starting at 8:30 am."]

== Including Policy Violations in Charts

*Note:* Users must have the View Policies permission set to view policies or edit a Policy Violation alert.

Enable or disable the tracking of policy violations by checking the Include Policy Violations checkbox on an Analytics chart screen. The chart shows traffic rejected, or not rejected, by a policy.

image::policy-violations-dashboard.png["An analytics chart screen with the Include Policy Violations checkbox indicated with a callout."]

== See Also

* xref:environment-permission-task.adoc[Setting permissions]
