modules/ROOT/pages/automated-policy-apply.adoc, before:

= Applying Automated Policies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

. In *API Manager*, select *Automated Policies* from the left navigation menu.
. Click *Apply new automated policy*.
. Select the provided policy that you want to configure as a provided policy. +
You can configure any provided policies for Mule 4 as an automated policy. +
See the xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[list of available Provided Policies] to learn how to configure each one of them.
+
When configuring an automated policy, at the bottom of the policy configuration page, there is a *Rule of Applications* sub-section. This dictates the set of runtimes that will be affected by the policy:

* *Apply to all supported runtimes (4.1.1 and above)*. +
All API proxies based on Mule 4.1.1 and later will be affected by the policy.
* *Apply to a specific set of runtimes*. +
You can configure a range of runtime versions to inherit the automated policy.
+
If you are configuring a type of policy that also exists as a provided policy in an API proxy affected by your rule of application, you'll need to solve the conflict before continuing. You can choose to:

** Select the APIs from the list of already configured APIs and manually disable the conflicting policy.
+
[TIP]
--
The UI shows only up to 10 conflicting APIs. +
For a full list of conflicting APIs, you can check the API Manager endpoint in the API Portal.
--
** Choose to override all conflicting policies for the already configured APIs.
. Click *Apply*


== See Also

* xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[Automated Policies]
* xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Mule 4 Provided Policies]

Commit message:

Custom policies can also be applied as automated policies.

modules/ROOT/pages/automated-policy-apply.adoc, after:

= Applying Automated Policies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

. In *API Manager*, select *Automated Policies* from the left navigation menu.
. Click *Apply new automated policy*.
. Select the provided policy that you want to configure as a provided policy. +
You can configure any provided policies for Mule 4 as an automated policy. +
See the xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[list of available Provided Policies] to learn how to configure each one of them, or the xref:policy-mule3-creating-custom-policy.adoc[Creating a Custom Policy] article to learn how to create one.
+
When configuring an automated policy, at the bottom of the policy configuration page, there is a *Rule of Applications* sub-section. This dictates the set of runtimes that will be affected by the policy:

* *Apply to all supported runtimes (4.1.1 and above)*. +
All API proxies based on Mule 4.1.1 and later will be affected by the policy.
* *Apply to a specific set of runtimes*. +
You can configure a range of runtime versions to inherit the automated policy.
+
If you are configuring a type of policy that also exists as a provided policy in an API proxy affected by your rule of application, you'll need to solve the conflict before continuing. You can choose to:

** Select the APIs from the list of already configured APIs and manually disable the conflicting policy.
+
[TIP]
--
The UI shows only up to 10 conflicting APIs. +
For a full list of conflicting APIs, you can check the API Manager endpoint in the API Portal.
--
** Choose to override all conflicting policies for the already configured APIs.
. Click *Apply*


== See Also

* xref:automated-policies-landing-page.adoc[Automated Policies]
* xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Mule 4 Provided Policies]
