modules/ROOT/pages/automated-policies-landing-page.adoc, before:

= Automated Policies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Automated policies make it easy for Anypoint Platform administrators to satisfy compliance in common security and logging requirements by automatically applying the same set of policies to all of your APIs. +
This allows API owners to deploy with confidence knowing that the environment in which they are deploying will have critical policies enforced automatically which ensures consistency and reduce possible errors because an administrator no longer needs to remember to insert a policy to enforce common standards manually +
API owners can continue to design, build and deploy APIs quickly without compromising security because your best practices are built into the application network.

Automated policies ensure consistency and reduce possible errors because an administrator no longer needs to remember to manually insert a policy to enforce common standards.

All of the xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Mule 4 Provided Policies] can be configured as automated policies. +
Policies can be configured to be applied at all the API’s running under an environment.

== Support for Automated Policies

* Automated policies are only available for API Proxies based on Mule 4 runtimes and later, deployed in a cloud-based runtime plane (CloudHub, Runtime Fabric, and Hybrid).
* Automated policies have priority over any other provided policy applied to a specific API proxy that conflicts with the provided policy. For example, if an API proxy running Mule 4.1.2 has an IP whitelist policy to allow only the IP range 192.168.100.0/22 (from 192.168.100.0 to 192.168.103.255), and a new IP Whitelist automated policy is created to only allow the IP range 192.168.100.14/24 (from 192.168.100.0 to 192.168.100.255) to apply to all supported runtime versions (4.1.1 and above), then this latter automated policy will prevail over the former provided policy. +
Additionally, if there is an automated policy already applied, you cannot apply that specific policy as a provided policy in a specific API proxy.

== See Also

* xref:automated-policy-apply.adoc[Applying Automated Policies]

Commit message:

Custom policies can also be applied as automated policies.

modules/ROOT/pages/automated-policies-landing-page.adoc, after:

= Automated Policies
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Automated policies make it easy for Anypoint Platform administrators to satisfy compliance in common security and logging requirements by automatically applying the same set of policies to all of your APIs. +
This allows API owners to deploy with confidence knowing that the environment in which they are deploying will have critical policies enforced automatically which ensures consistency and reduce possible errors because an administrator no longer needs to remember to insert a policy to enforce common standards manually +
API owners can continue to design, build and deploy APIs quickly without compromising security because your best practices are built into the application network.

All of the xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Mule 4 Provided Policies], and any xref:policy-mule3-custom-policies.adoc[Mule 4 Custom Policy] can be configured as automated policies and can be configured to be applied at all the API’s running under an environment.

== Support for Automated Policies

* Automated policies are only available for API Proxies based on Mule 4 runtimes and later, deployed in a cloud-based runtime plane (CloudHub, Runtime Fabric, and Hybrid).
* Automated policies have priority over the same type of policy applied to a specific API proxy. +
For example, if an API proxy running Mule 4.1.2 has an IP whitelist policy to allow only the IP range 192.168.100.0/22 (from 192.168.100.0 to 192.168.103.255), and a new IP Whitelist automated policy is created to only allow the IP range 192.168.100.14/24 (from 192.168.100.0 to 192.168.100.255) and is applied to all supported runtime versions (4.1.1 and above), then this latter automated policy will prevail over the former provided policy. +
Additionally, if there is an automated policy already applied, you cannot apply that specific type of policy as a provided policy in a specific API proxy.

== See Also

* xref:automated-policy-apply.adoc[Applying Automated Policies]
