modules/ROOT/pages/building-https-proxy.adoc, before:

= Building an HTTPS API Proxy

API Manager 2.x lets you use the secrets you stored in your secret group to build an HTTPS based API for your CloudHub or Hybrid deployments. +
By configuring a TLS context for your inbound and outbound traffic, you can ensure your traffic's security.

The secrets manager integration is only supported by API Proxies running Mule 4, and only for CloudHub, Hybrid, and standalone deployments.

== Prerequisites

To configure your HTTPS API Proxy using secrets stored in your secret group, you need to meet the following requirements:

* Secrets Manager Permissions enabled for your user. +
To configure an existing TLS context for the API Proxy, you need the *Read secrets metadata* permission.
Review the xref:anypoint-security::asm-permission-concept.adoc[Secrets Manager Permissions] reference for more information.
* Make sure your user has an *API Versions Owner* role.
* A secret group along with a TLS Context in Secrets Manager. +
Make sure you review the _Adding a TLS Context_ task within the xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-creation-task.adoc[Creating a Secret Group] instructions. +
If you are not familiar with the secrets manager concepts, you should also review the xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-concept.adoc[Secrets Group basic conepts] and their xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-type-support-reference.adoc[supported secret types].

== Configuring your API

. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* and *Manage API From Exchange*.
. Configure your API Proxy asset. +
Use the xref:api-manager::manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Managing an API from Exchange] task if you need a complete reference on how to do this. +
While configuring your API Proxy, make sure you also select the following configurations:
.. Select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing Type* fields
.. Select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* check mark.
. Click the *Add TLS Context* in the *TLS Context for Outbound traffic* field.
+
image::building-https-proxy-c7589.png[]
+
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
image::building-https-proxy-7543c.png[]
+
[TIP]
If you can't see any context, make sure you have the right permissions mentioned in the prerequisites above.

Additionally, if you want to enable SSL inbound traffic:

. Click *Advanced Options*.
. On the *Scheme* field, select *HTTPS*. +
This makes the *TLS Context for Inbound Traffic* field appear.
. Select *Add TLS Context*.
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
image::building-https-proxy-7543c.png[]
+
. Click *Save*

== Deploying the API Proxy

=== CloudHub

After you configured your API Proxy and selected *CloudHub* as the *Proxy deployment target*, your API Proxy will be automatically deployed, with the secrets already configured.

Your secrets are configured as secure property placeholders under the `SecureProperties` in your `mule-artifact.json`. +
The amount of properties supplied depends on your selected configuration:

[source,sample,linenums]
----
inbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
inbound.keystore.password_281324

inbound.truststore.password_281324

outbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
outbound.keystore.password_281324

outbound.truststore.password_281324
----

The `281324` suffix in this case is API Instance ID of your API Proxy.

If you inspect your API Proxy's XML, you can see these properites being used in your trustore/keystore configurations:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:trust-store path="outbound-truststore.jks" password="${outbound.truststore.password_281324}" type="JKS" insecure="true"  />
----


=== Hybrid

After you configured your API Proxy and selected *Hybrid* as the *Proxy deployment target*, your API Proxy will be automatically deployed, with the secrets already configured.

Your secrets are configured as secure property placeholders under the `SecureProperties` in your `mule-artifact.json`. +
The amount of properties supplied depends on your selected configuration:

[source,sample,linenums]
----
inbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
inbound.keystore.password_281324

inbound.truststore.password_281324

outbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
outbound.keystore.password_281324

outbound.truststore.password_281324
----

The `281324` suffix in this case is API Instance ID of your API Proxy.

If you inspect your API Proxy's XML, you can see these properites being used in your trustore/keystore configurations:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:trust-store path="outbound-truststore.jks" password="${outbound.truststore.password_281324}" type="JKS" insecure="true"  />
----

=== Standalone

To deploy you API Proxy to a standalone server, you need to provide secured properties for each TLS Context.

. Download the API Proxy.
.. In API Manager, select the version of the API proxy you want to download.
.. Click the *Actions* button in the top right side of your screen and select *Download Proxy*.
+
image::building-https-proxy-62dbf.png[]
+
. Take note of your API Instance ID under *API Instance*.
+
image::building-https-proxy-541ec.png[]
+
. When running your standalone Mule instance, you need to provide the keystore and key passphrases as -D arguments, along with your API Proxy's API Instance ID. +
For example, if your API instance ID is 15464957, you need to pass the arguments:
+
[source,sample,linenums]
----
./bin/mule \
-M-Dinbound.keystore.keyPassword_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Dinbound.keystore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Dinbound.truststore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.keystore.keyPassword_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.keystore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.truststore.password_15464957=pass123
----

== See Also

* xref:anypoint-security::index-secrets-manager.adoc[Secrets Manager]
* xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-creation-task.adoc[Creating a Secrets Group]
* xref:runtime-manager::building-an-https-service.adoc[Building an HTTPS Service]

Commit message:

Add link to creating an HTTPS service in Mule 3

modules/ROOT/pages/building-https-proxy.adoc, after:

= Building an HTTPS API Proxy

API Manager 2.x lets you use the secrets you stored in your secret group to build an HTTPS based API for your CloudHub or Hybrid deployments. +
By configuring a TLS context for your inbound and outbound traffic, you can ensure your traffic's security.

The secrets manager integration is only supported by API Proxies running Mule 4, and only for CloudHub, Hybrid, and standalone deployments. +
If you want to build and HTTPS Proxy in Mule 3, follow the xref:runtime-fabric::building-an-https-service.adoc[Building an HTTPS Service] tutorial. 

== Prerequisites

To configure your HTTPS API Proxy using secrets stored in your secret group, you need to meet the following requirements:

* Secrets Manager Permissions enabled for your user. +
To configure an existing TLS context for the API Proxy, you need the *Read secrets metadata* permission.
Review the xref:anypoint-security::asm-permission-concept.adoc[Secrets Manager Permissions] reference for more information.
* Make sure your user has an *API Versions Owner* role.
* A secret group along with a TLS Context in Secrets Manager. +
Make sure you review the _Adding a TLS Context_ task within the xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-creation-task.adoc[Creating a Secret Group] instructions. +
If you are not familiar with the secrets manager concepts, you should also review the xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-concept.adoc[Secrets Group basic conepts] and their xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-type-support-reference.adoc[supported secret types].

== Configuring your API

. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* and *Manage API From Exchange*.
. Configure your API Proxy asset. +
Use the xref:api-manager::manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Managing an API from Exchange] task if you need a complete reference on how to do this. +
While configuring your API Proxy, make sure you also select the following configurations:
.. Select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing Type* fields
.. Select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* check mark.
. Click the *Add TLS Context* in the *TLS Context for Outbound traffic* field.
+
image::building-https-proxy-c7589.png[]
+
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
image::building-https-proxy-7543c.png[]
+
[TIP]
If you can't see any context, make sure you have the right permissions mentioned in the prerequisites above.

Additionally, if you want to enable SSL inbound traffic:

. Click *Advanced Options*.
. On the *Scheme* field, select *HTTPS*. +
This makes the *TLS Context for Inbound Traffic* field appear.
. Select *Add TLS Context*.
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
image::building-https-proxy-7543c.png[]
+
. Click *Save*

== Deploying the API Proxy

=== CloudHub

After you configured your API Proxy and selected *CloudHub* as the *Proxy deployment target*, your API Proxy will be automatically deployed, with the secrets already configured.

Your secrets are configured as secure property placeholders under the `SecureProperties` in your `mule-artifact.json`. +
The amount of properties supplied depends on your selected configuration:

[source,sample,linenums]
----
inbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
inbound.keystore.password_281324

inbound.truststore.password_281324

outbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
outbound.keystore.password_281324

outbound.truststore.password_281324
----

The `281324` suffix in this case is API Instance ID of your API Proxy.

If you inspect your API Proxy's XML, you can see these properites being used in your trustore/keystore configurations:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:trust-store path="outbound-truststore.jks" password="${outbound.truststore.password_281324}" type="JKS" insecure="true"  />
----


=== Hybrid

After you configured your API Proxy and selected *Hybrid* as the *Proxy deployment target*, your API Proxy will be automatically deployed, with the secrets already configured.

Your secrets are configured as secure property placeholders under the `SecureProperties` in your `mule-artifact.json`. +
The amount of properties supplied depends on your selected configuration:

[source,sample,linenums]
----
inbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
inbound.keystore.password_281324

inbound.truststore.password_281324

outbound.keystore.keyPassword_281324
outbound.keystore.password_281324

outbound.truststore.password_281324
----

The `281324` suffix in this case is API Instance ID of your API Proxy.

If you inspect your API Proxy's XML, you can see these properites being used in your trustore/keystore configurations:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<tls:trust-store path="outbound-truststore.jks" password="${outbound.truststore.password_281324}" type="JKS" insecure="true"  />
----

=== Standalone

To deploy you API Proxy to a standalone server, you need to provide secured properties for each TLS Context.

. Download the API Proxy.
.. In API Manager, select the version of the API proxy you want to download.
.. Click the *Actions* button in the top right side of your screen and select *Download Proxy*.
+
image::building-https-proxy-62dbf.png[]
+
. Take note of your API Instance ID under *API Instance*.
+
image::building-https-proxy-541ec.png[]
+
. When running your standalone Mule instance, you need to provide the keystore and key passphrases as -D arguments, along with your API Proxy's API Instance ID. +
For example, if your API instance ID is 15464957, you need to pass the arguments:
+
[source,sample,linenums]
----
./bin/mule \
-M-Dinbound.keystore.keyPassword_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Dinbound.keystore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Dinbound.truststore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.keystore.keyPassword_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.keystore.password_15464957=pass123 \
-M-Doutbound.truststore.password_15464957=pass123
----

== See Also

* xref:anypoint-security::index-secrets-manager.adoc[Secrets Manager]
* xref:anypoint-security::asm-secret-group-creation-task.adoc[Creating a Secrets Group]
* xref:runtime-manager::building-an-https-service.adoc[Building an HTTPS Service]
