modules/ROOT/pages/configure-api-task.adoc, before:

= Configuring an API Instance
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can customize your API Instance to fit your specific situation with the following optional configurations.
Not all options are available depending on the runtime as well as the API.

== Configure an API Instance on Flex Gateway Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. It must end with a /. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
| *Proxy version* | Specifies the version of the proxy to use for the endpoint.| No |
| *Base path* | Specifies the URL prefix for all API paths, relative to the host root. It must start with a leading slash /. | No | 
| **Advanced Options** |  |  |
| *Scheme* | Specifies whether to use HTTP or HTTPS. | Yes | If you select HTTPS, specify a TLS context for inbound traffic.
| *Port* | Specifies the number to use if the displayed port is incorrect. | No | 
|===

== Configure an API Instance on Service Mesh Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
|===

== Configure an API Instance on Mule Gateway Options

The options available when adding an API Instance using the Mule Gateway as the runtime depends on whether you want to create a basic endpoint or an endpoint with proxy, whether you include an API definition with your API Instance, and whether the API was created using Mule 3 or Mule 4.

=== Connect to existing application (Basic Endpoint) Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
|===

=== Deploy a Proxy Application Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
| *Base path* | Specifies the URL prefix for all API paths, relative to the host root. It must start with a leading slash /. | No | 
| **Advanced options** | | |
| *Proxy version* | Specifies the version of the proxy to use for the endpoint.| No |
| *TLS Context for outbound traffic* | Specifies the TLS context to secure outbound traffic.  | No |  Only available on Mule 4+.
| *Scheme* | Specifies whether to use HTTP or HTTPS for the validations. | Yes | If you select HTTPS, specify a TLS context for inbound traffic.
| *TLS Context for inbound traffic* | Specifies the TLS context to secure inbound traffic. | No |  Only available on Mule 4+.
| *Port* | Specifies the number to use if the displayed port is incorrect. | No | 
| *Request timeout* | Specifies the duration after which a request times out. | No | 
| *Domain* | Specifies whether to use an API gateway domain. | No | If you chose *Hybrid* as the proxy deployment target previously in the configuration, ensure that you select this option. You must install the API gateway domain in Mule 3.8 and later.
| *Enable Console* | Specifies whether you can expose and test your API specification. | No | You can specify a different path in *Console Path*, for example, "/spec/*". Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+.
| *Validations* | Specifies whether to validate inbound requests against a provided specification. | No | Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+.
| *Strict validations (optional)* | Specifies whether to validate inbound requests against query parameters. | No | Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+
|===

== See Also

* xref:create-instance-task.adoc[Creating an API instance on API Manager]
* xref:api-auto-discovery-new-concept[API Gateway API Autodiscovery Concepts]

Commit message:

W-11639518: API Manager Port Sharing (#467)
* Add flex port notes

* minor change

add a '.'

Co-authored-by: Mariano Kfuri <83352330+mkfuriMule@users.noreply.github.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/configure-api-task.adoc, after:

= Configuring an API Instance
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You can customize your API Instance to fit your specific situation with the following optional configurations.
Not all options are available depending on the runtime as well as the API.

== Configure an API Instance on Flex Gateway Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. It must end with a /. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
| *Proxy version* | Specifies the version of the proxy to use for the endpoint.| No |
| *Base path* | Specifies the URL prefix for all API paths, relative to the host root. It must start with a leading slash /. | No | 
| **Advanced Options** |  |  |
| *Scheme* | Specifies whether to use HTTP or HTTPS. | Yes | If you select HTTPS, specify a TLS context for inbound traffic.
| *Port* | Specifies the number to use if the displayed port is incorrect. | No | Port can be shared between API instances over the same Target as long as the Base paths are different. Only available on Flex 1.2.0+.
|===

== Configure an API Instance on Service Mesh Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
|===

== Configure an API Instance on Mule Gateway Options

The options available when adding an API Instance using the Mule Gateway as the runtime depends on whether you want to create a basic endpoint or an endpoint with proxy, whether you include an API definition with your API Instance, and whether the API was created using Mule 3 or Mule 4.

=== Connect to existing application (Basic Endpoint) Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
|===

=== Deploy a Proxy Application Options

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="15%,35%,15%,35%"]
|===
| Field Name | Description | Required | Notes
| *API instance label* | Specifies a label for the API. | No | If you have multiple managed instances of the same API, add a label to differentiate each instance from the others.
| *Implementation URI* | The URL to access for the proxy or the API. | Yes|  For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. 
| *Consumer endpoint* | Specifies a proxy application's address for consumers to use for sending requests.| No |
| *Base path* | Specifies the URL prefix for all API paths, relative to the host root. It must start with a leading slash /. | No | 
| **Advanced options** | | |
| *Proxy version* | Specifies the version of the proxy to use for the endpoint.| No |
| *TLS Context for outbound traffic* | Specifies the TLS context to secure outbound traffic.  | No |  Only available on Mule 4+.
| *Scheme* | Specifies whether to use HTTP or HTTPS for the validations. | Yes | If you select HTTPS, specify a TLS context for inbound traffic.
| *TLS Context for inbound traffic* | Specifies the TLS context to secure inbound traffic. | No |  Only available on Mule 4+.
| *Port* | Specifies the number to use if the displayed port is incorrect. | No | 
| *Request timeout* | Specifies the duration after which a request times out. | No | 
| *Domain* | Specifies whether to use an API gateway domain. | No | If you chose *Hybrid* as the proxy deployment target previously in the configuration, ensure that you select this option. You must install the API gateway domain in Mule 3.8 and later.
| *Enable Console* | Specifies whether you can expose and test your API specification. | No | You can specify a different path in *Console Path*, for example, "/spec/*". Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+.
| *Validations* | Specifies whether to validate inbound requests against a provided specification. | No | Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+.
| *Strict validations (optional)* | Specifies whether to validate inbound requests against query parameters. | No | Only available if you have an attached API definition. Only available on Mule 3+
|===

== See Also

* xref:create-instance-task.adoc[Creating an API instance on API Manager]
* xref:api-auto-discovery-new-concept[API Gateway API Autodiscovery Concepts]
