modules/ROOT/pages/datagraph-landing-page.adoc, before:

= Anypoint DataGraph Administration
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You manage Anypoint DataGraph in API Manager. The DataGraph Administration page for a particular environment appears only after you have added at least one API schema to that environment's unified schema.

As an Anypoint DataGraph administrator:

* Use the xref:datagraph-settings.adoc[Anypoint DataGraph Administration settings] to select environments, view and edit the GraphQL endpoint of a unified schema, configure policies, and configure client providers.

* Manage xref:datagraph-managing-contracts.adoc[contracts] to ensure that only authorized client applications can consume the unified schema.

* Manage xref:datagraph-adding-sla-tiers.adoc[SLA tiers] for each Anypoint DataGraph instance.

* Use the xref:datagraph-viewing-application-contracts.adoc[API Manager Client Applications] page to view and manage client application contracts.

== See Also

* xref:datagraph::index.adoc[Anypoint DataGraph Overview]

Commit message:

W-11852158 & W-11865460: Fixing docs
We are fixing the documentation to reflect that both admin and contributor have privileges to administrate manage client apps, with their respective tiers, contracts and policies

modules/ROOT/pages/datagraph-landing-page.adoc, after:

= Anypoint DataGraph Administration
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

You manage Anypoint DataGraph in API Manager. The DataGraph Administration page for a particular environment appears only after you have added at least one API schema to that environment's unified schema.

Both Anypoint DataGraph administrators and contributors are able to:

* Use the xref:datagraph-settings.adoc[Anypoint DataGraph Administration settings] to select environments, view and edit the GraphQL endpoint of a unified schema, configure policies, and configure client providers.

* Manage xref:datagraph-managing-contracts.adoc[contracts] to ensure that only authorized client applications can consume the unified schema.

* Manage xref:datagraph-adding-sla-tiers.adoc[SLA tiers] for each Anypoint DataGraph instance.

* Use the xref:datagraph-viewing-application-contracts.adoc[API Manager Client Applications] page to view and manage client application contracts.

== See Also

* xref:datagraph::index.adoc[Anypoint DataGraph Overview]
