modules/ROOT/pages/message-logging-policy.adoc, before:

= Message Logging
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy name | Message Logging
>s|Summary      | Logs custom messages using information from incoming requests, responses from the backend, or information from other policies applied to the same API endpoint.
>s|Category | Troubleshooting
>s|First Mule version available | v3.8.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| No return codes exist for this policy
|===

The Message Logging policy logs custom messages using information from incoming requests, responses from the backend, or information from other policies applied to the same API endpoint. 

This policy works with both Apache log4j and Apache log4j2.

== Prerequisites

You must have the Anypoint Platform Organization Administrators role or have permission to create or manage APIs.

== How This Policy Works

Logging a policy consists of the following sequence:

. A request is sent to the API.
. The message is logged if the following conditions are true:
** The level and category of the log defined in the policy are included in the logger defined in the log4j2.xml configuration file.
** Either the conditional field of the policy was not set, or was set and the condition was met.
. The API response is returned. Message Logging Policy does not interfere with the execution of any policy nor its flow.
. The message appears in the application log.

== About the Logging Format

A message log uses the following format: 

`<date> <thread name> <level> <category>: <message>`

`date` is the message logging date and timestamp.

`thread name` is the name of the event thread in which the message appears.

`level` is the logging level or type of the message, such as INFO, WARN, ERROR, and DEBUG (log4j level).

For more information, see https://www.tutorialspoint.com/log4j/log4j_logging_levels.htm[log4j Logging Levels].

`category` typically indicates the package and class where the logging occurred. The default value is `org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-<policy id>`.

`message`: displays the message to be logged, for example, `the payload`:

`2018-01-25 18:57:29,907 [WrapperListener_start_runner] INFO org.mule: the payload`

== Logging States During Events

Message logging occurs at specific intervals during a request flow:

* Before logging an API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-1.png[State before logging an API flow]
* After logging an API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-2.png[State after logging an API flow]
* Error handler after API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-3.png[State after the error handler executes]


== Configuring Policy Parameters

When you use the UI to apply the Message Logging policy to your API, you can configure the following parameters:

image::apim-message-logging-policy-ui.png[Message Logging Policy UI]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter |Description | Required?
|Message |A DataWeave expression to use for extracting the message to be logged
Note: If the payload is used as part of the message log, do not configure the Listener as nonrepeatable.|Required
|Conditional |A DataWeave Boolean expression used to specify whether a message is to be logged |Optional
|Category |A prefix in the log message that indicates the package and class where the log is executed. If no category is set, the default value is `org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-<policy id>`. |Optional
|Level |Defines the level of message to log: INFO, WARN, ERROR, or DEBUG |Required
|Before Calling API |Set to cause your logging policy to log messages before the API endpoint is called, taking into account the order in which this policy is applied |Optional
|After Calling API |Set to cause your logging policy to log messages after the API endpoint is called, taking into account the order in which this policy is applied |Optional
|===

== Example of Logging Policy from the UI

To better understand how to use the Message Logging policy, imagine an example "Les Vetments" company that is in the business of retail clothing and more. Les Vetments needs to audit all calls made too its API to view a record of events and changes. 


//Where data need to understand this a bit more.

Since the APIs are already implemented, Les Vetments need to apply the Message Logging policy to log every events that modifies the data. This way we are covering this use case without requiring changes to the organization APIs.
1:58
We are going to use the resource level policies granularity to define that the policy is going to be applied to only the POST, PUT, PATCH and DELETE methods.

To log all events, Les Vetments applies the Message Logging policy to the API with the following UI configurations:

*Message*: #[payload]
+
Everything in the payload must be logged.
*Conditional*: Blank
+
Because Les Vetments requires all types of messages, no Mule expression ito filter messages is specified.
*Category*: Blank
+
No prefix is required in the log sentence.
*Level*: Info
+
All types of messages are to be logged: Info, Warn, Error, or Debug.
*Before Calling API*: checked
+
All transactions occurring before the API is called is to be logged.
*After calling API*: Checked
+
All transactions occurring after the API is called is to be logged.




== Example of Logging Policy in XML

The following flow shows an example logging policy:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
      xmlns:http-policy="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy/current/mule-http-policy.xsd">

<http-policy:proxy name="102280-message-logging">
  <http-policy:source>
   <try>
	<try>
	  <logger level="INFO" message="#[payload]"
	  category="org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-102280"/>
	    <error-handler>
	     <on-error-continue>
		<logger level="DEBUG" message="Before calling API turned into an error"
			category="org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-102280"/>
	     </on-error-continue>
	    </error-handler>
	</try>
        <http-policy:execute-next/>
          <error-handler>
	    <on-error-propagate logException="false">
	    </on-error-propagate>
          </error-handler>
  </try>
  </http-policy:source>
</http-policy:proxy>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* https://forums.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Forum]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[Contact MuleSoft Support]

Commit message:

DOCS-6036 added the message logging example

modules/ROOT/pages/message-logging-policy.adoc, after:

= Message Logging
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy name | Message Logging
>s|Summary      | Logs custom messages using information from incoming requests, responses from the backend, or information from other policies applied to the same API endpoint.
>s|Category | Troubleshooting
>s|First Mule version available | v3.8.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
| No return codes exist for this policy
|===

The Message Logging policy logs custom messages using information from incoming requests, responses from the backend, or information from other policies applied to the same API endpoint. 

This policy works with both Apache log4j and Apache log4j2.

== Prerequisites

You must have the Anypoint Platform Organization Administrators role or have permission to create or manage APIs.

== How This Policy Works

Logging a policy consists of the following sequence:

. A request is sent to the API.
. The message is logged if the following conditions are true:
** The level and category of the log defined in the policy are included in the logger defined in the log4j2.xml configuration file.
** Either the conditional field of the policy was not set, or was set and the condition was met.
. The API response is returned. Message Logging Policy does not interfere with the execution of any policy nor its flow.
. The message appears in the application log.

== About the Logging Format

A message log uses the following format: 

`<date> <thread name> <level> <category>: <message>`

`date` is the message logging date and timestamp.

`thread name` is the name of the event thread in which the message appears.

`level` is the logging level or type of the message, such as INFO, WARN, ERROR, and DEBUG (log4j level).

For more information, see https://www.tutorialspoint.com/log4j/log4j_logging_levels.htm[log4j Logging Levels].

`category` typically indicates the package and class where the logging occurred. The default value is `org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-<policy id>`.

`message`: displays the message to be logged, for example, `the payload`:

`2018-01-25 18:57:29,907 [WrapperListener_start_runner] INFO org.mule: the payload`

== Logging States During Events

Message logging occurs at specific intervals during a request flow:

* Before logging an API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-1.png[State before logging an API flow]
* After logging an API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-2.png[State after logging an API flow]
* Error handler after API flow:
+
image::apim-message-logging-policy-states-3.png[State after the error handler executes]


== Configuring Policy Parameters

When you use the UI to apply the Message Logging policy to your API, you can configure the following parameters:

image::apim-message-logging-policy-ui.png[Message Logging Policy UI]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter |Description | Required?
|Message |A DataWeave expression to use for extracting the message to be logged
Note: If the payload is used as part of the message log, do not configure the Listener as nonrepeatable.|Required
|Conditional |A DataWeave Boolean expression used to specify whether a message is to be logged |Optional
|Category |A prefix in the log message that indicates the package and class where the log is executed. If no category is set, the default value is `org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-<policy id>`. |Optional
|Level |Defines the level of message to log: INFO, WARN, ERROR, or DEBUG |Required
|Before Calling API |Set to cause your logging policy to log messages before the API endpoint is called, taking into account the order in which this policy is applied |Optional
|After Calling API |Set to cause your logging policy to log messages after the API endpoint is called, taking into account the order in which this policy is applied |Optional
|===

== Example of Logging Policy from the UI

To better understand how to use the Message Logging policy, consider an example "Les Vetments" company that is in the business of retail clothing and more. To run their e-commerce portal successfully, Les Vetments needs to audit every event and transaction made on their website.

For example, if a customers buys or returns a product, or if the company adds or removes a product from the catalogue, the transactions must be logged. The IT manager at Les Vetments applies the Message Logging policy to their APIs to enable logging and viewing any data or transaction changes without making any modifications in the code.

Les Vetments uses the resource-level policy's granularity to apply the policy to only `POST`, `PUT`, `PATCH` and `DELETE` methods. To log all events, Les Vetments applies the Message Logging policy to the API with the following UI configurations:

*Message*: #[payload]
+
Everything in the payload must be logged.
*Conditional*: Blank
+
Because Les Vetments requires all types of messages, no Mule expression ito filter messages is specified.
*Category*: Blank
+
No prefix is required in the log sentence.
*Level*: Info
+
All types of messages are to be logged: Info, Warn, Error, or Debug.
*Before Calling API*: checked
+
All transactions occurring before the API is called is to be logged.
*After calling API*: Checked
+
All transactions occurring after the API is called is to be logged.

Now, whenever a customer accesses the Les Vetments catalogue and adds or removes items from their cart, or when an item is added or removed from the catalogue, logs are generated:
//add the output example here



== Example of Logging Policy in XML

The following flow shows an example logging policy:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
      xmlns:http-policy="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy"
      xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy
      http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http-policy/current/mule-http-policy.xsd">

<http-policy:proxy name="102280-message-logging">
  <http-policy:source>
   <try>
	<try>
	  <logger level="INFO" message="#[payload]"
	  category="org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-102280"/>
	    <error-handler>
	     <on-error-continue>
		<logger level="DEBUG" message="Before calling API turned into an error"
			category="org.mule.runtime.logging.policy-102280"/>
	     </on-error-continue>
	    </error-handler>
	</try>
        <http-policy:execute-next/>
          <error-handler>
	    <on-error-propagate logException="false">
	    </on-error-propagate>
          </error-handler>
  </try>
  </http-policy:source>
</http-policy:proxy>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* https://forums.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Forum]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[Contact MuleSoft Support]
