modules/ROOT/pages/policy-mule3-ip-blacklist.adoc, before:

= To Apply IP Blacklist
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: IP, blacklist, validation, policy

The IP blacklist policy can control whether a list or range of IP addresses can access and interact with a configured API endpoint. You use one of the following options to blacklist addresses for your API:

* Option 1: Blacklist access based on the IP address of the request
* Option 2: Blacklist access based on the origin IP address of the x-Forwarded-For header

== Option 1: Blacklist access based on the IP address of the request

. Click the version number of an API.
+
. On the API dashboard, click Policies.
+
The list of any applied policies appears.
+
. In Apply New Policy.
. In Select Policy, choose IP Blacklist, and click Configure Policy.
. Specify a list of IP addresses in the blacklist section of Apply IP Blacklist Policy.
+
Specified addresses are blacklisted to access and interact with your API.

You can specify an address or a range or addresses in the following ways:

* Define a specific IP address by enumerating it in the white space. For example, 192.168.1.1.
* Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask. For example, 192.168.3.1/30 will include the consolidated range: 192.168.3.0 - 192.168.3.3.
* Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit. For example, setting `192.168` will include IP addresses from 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255.


== Option 2: Blacklist access based on the origin IP address of the x-Forwarded-For header
If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load-balancer, you can blacklist the client's specific IP (the IP originating the request) instead of the address that will appear in the request.
For example:
Suppose you want to blacklist 192.168.2.3, the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy whose address is 92.40.1.255. The client requests appear with this public address.
Typically, applications use the 'X-Forwarded-For' header to identify the origin IP addresses of a request that was redirected to your endpoint.

You can use a Mule expression to instruct the service to look for the IP address in the 'x-Forwarded-For' header:

[source,mel]
----
#[message.inboundProperties['http.headers']['X-Forwarded-For']]
----

Insert the IP address in the IP expression field:

image::ip-whitelist-ip-expression.png[ip+blacklist+ip_expression]

This instructs API Platform to look at the first IP address that ranks in the concatenated values of the 'x-Forwarded-For' header of the request.


== See Also

xref:3.7@mule-runtime::mule-expression-language-mel.adoc[Mule Expression Language (MEL)]

Commit message:

DOCS-11772 update whitelist and blacklist terms

modules/ROOT/pages/policy-mule3-ip-blacklist.adoc, after:

= To Apply IP Blocklist
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: IP, blocklist, validation, policy

The IP Blocklist policy can control whether a list or range of IP addresses can access and interact with a configured API endpoint. You use one of the following options to blocklist addresses for your API:

* Option 1: Blocklist access based on the IP address of the request
* Option 2: Blocklist access based on the origin IP address of the x-Forwarded-For header

== Option 1: Blocklist access based on the IP address of the request

. Click the version number of an API.
+
. On the API dashboard, click Policies.
+
The list of any applied policies appears.
+
. In Apply New Policy.
. In Select Policy, choose IP Blocklist, and click Configure Policy.
. Specify a list of IP addresses in the blocklist section of Apply IP Blocklist Policy.
+
Specified addresses are blocklisted to access and interact with your API.

You can specify an address or a range or addresses in the following ways:

* Define a specific IP address by enumerating it in the white space. For example, 192.168.1.1.
* Define a subset of addresses by identifying a subnet mask. For example, 192.168.3.1/30 will include the consolidated range: 192.168.3.0 - 192.168.3.3.
* Define a whole range of IP addresses by stating the relevant octets of the IP address you want to permit. For example, setting `192.168` will include IP addresses from 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255.


== Option 2: Blocklist access based on the origin IP address of the x-Forwarded-For header
If the client connects to your API through an HTTP proxy or a load-balancer, you can blocklist the client's specific IP (the IP originating the request) instead of the address that will appear in the request.
For example:
Suppose you want to blocklist 192.168.2.3, the address of a client connecting through an HTTP proxy whose address is 92.40.1.255. The client requests appear with this public address.
Typically, applications use the 'X-Forwarded-For' header to identify the origin IP addresses of a request that was redirected to your endpoint.

You can use a Mule expression to instruct the service to look for the IP address in the 'x-Forwarded-For' header:

[source,mel]
----
#[message.inboundProperties['http.headers']['X-Forwarded-For']]
----

Insert the IP address in the IP expression field:

image::ip-allowlist-ip-expression.png[ip+blocklist+ip_expression]

This instructs API Platform to look at the first IP address that ranks in the concatenated values of the 'x-Forwarded-For' header of the request.


== See Also

xref:3.7@mule-runtime::mule-expression-language-mel.adoc[Mule Expression Language (MEL)]
