modules/ROOT/pages/prepare-raml-task.adoc, before:

= Traits & policies concepts of RAML/OAS based APIs
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

If your API exposes a RAML or OAS definition that users might need to reference, then the API definition should reliably detail every element that is expected in calls to your API. +
For example when applying a client ID-based policies implies that all requests coming to your API include a client ID and client Secret (by default expected as query parameters). To prevent user requests from being rejected, create a trait in the RAML root and then reference this trait in every operation of your API. The trait might look like this:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
traits:
  - client-id-required:
      queryParameters:
        client_id:
          type: string
        client_secret:
          type: string
----

And then you can apply this trait in each individual operation like this:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
/products:
  get:
    is: [client-id-required]
    description: Gets a list of all the inventory products.
----

== Getting Policies Specification Snippets

. Click *Policies* on the API dashboard.
+
In the list of policies, the RAML snippet link contains the RAML trait or OAS components you need to add to the API specification.
+
image::raml-snippet.png[]
. Click *API Specification Snippet*.
. Select the API type to match your specification:
** RAML 0.8 or RAML 1.0 to match the API RAML version.
+
image::snippet-rate-limiting.png[]
** Or OAS 2.0 to match the API OAS version.
+
image::prepare-raml-task-2b676.png[]
+
OAS Snippets is not supported by all policies versions. +
See the table below to see the supported policies and versions:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Policy | Version
| Rate limiting - SLA based | since v1.1.2
| OAuth 2.0 access token enforcement using Mule OAuth provider | since v1.1.3
| OpenAM access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| OpenId Connect access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| OpenId Connect access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| Client ID enforcement | since v1.1.3
|===
. Edit the API to add the code.
. Redeploy the API.

== See Also

* xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Provided Policies]
* xref:policies-custom-landing-page.adoc[Custom Policies]

Commit message:

Reword note about OAS snippets display for policies

modules/ROOT/pages/prepare-raml-task.adoc, after:

= Traits & policies concepts of RAML/OAS based APIs
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

If your API exposes a RAML or OAS definition that users might need to reference, then the API definition should reliably detail every element that is expected in calls to your API. +
For example when applying a client ID-based policies implies that all requests coming to your API include a client ID and client Secret (by default expected as query parameters). To prevent user requests from being rejected, create a trait in the RAML root and then reference this trait in every operation of your API. The trait might look like this:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
traits:
  - client-id-required:
      queryParameters:
        client_id:
          type: string
        client_secret:
          type: string
----

And then you can apply this trait in each individual operation like this:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
/products:
  get:
    is: [client-id-required]
    description: Gets a list of all the inventory products.
----

== Getting Policies Specification Snippets

. Click *Policies* on the API dashboard.
+
In the list of policies, the RAML snippet link contains the RAML trait or OAS components you need to add to the API specification.
+
image::raml-snippet.png[]
. Click *API Specification Snippet*.
. Select the API type to match your specification:
** RAML 0.8 or RAML 1.0 to match the API RAML version.
+
image::snippet-rate-limiting.png[]
** Or OAS 2.0 to match the API OAS version.
+
image::prepare-raml-task-2b676.png[]
+
OAS Snippets are not displayed for all policy versions. +
See the table below to see the policies and the versions that display their OAS snippets:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
| Policy | Version
| Rate limiting - SLA based | since v1.1.2
| OAuth 2.0 access token enforcement using Mule OAuth provider | since v1.1.3
| OpenAM access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| OpenId Connect access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| OpenId Connect access token enforcement | since v1.1.3
| Client ID enforcement | since v1.1.3
|===
. Edit the API to add the code.
. Redeploy the API.

== See Also

* xref:policies-ootb-landing-page.adoc[Provided Policies]
* xref:policies-custom-landing-page.adoc[Custom Policies]
