modules/ROOT/pages/proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy.adoc, before:

= Building a RAML/OAS API Proxy

API Manager 2.x allows you to use a RAML/OAS type of API Proxy, for all your Mule 4 based proxies.

== Configuring your RAML/OAS API Proxy

. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* to create your API Instance. +
You can choose to either xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Creating an API instance by importing from Exchange] or xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Creating an API instance by importing on API Manager].
. In *Asset Type*, select *RAML/OAS*.
. To configure your API Proxy for this API instance you need to select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing Type* fields.
.. Select your *Proxy Deployment Target*  from the available deployment targets displayed.
.. Select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* check mark.
.. Type in your *Implementation URI*.
+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-85634.png[]
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses a proxy version `2.0` and later.
+
`2.0` is the recommended version for OAS/RAML specs, since native OAS is only supported by this version. +
If you upload a OAS spec to a v1.0 proxy, your API specification will be translated to RAML.
. Select your *Scheme* and *Port* number for your API proxy. +
Optionally, you can set up an *API Instance label* and a *Response Timeout*.
+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-af2f8.png[]
. Click *Save*.

== See Also

* xref:proxy-advantages.adoc[Reviewing API Proxy Benefits and Impacts]
* xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[Building an HTTPS API Proxy]
* xref:proxy-latest-concept.adoc[Deploying an API Proxy]

Commit message:

Reword `latest` description in RAML/OAS proxy creation to improve readability

modules/ROOT/pages/proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy.adoc, after:

= Building a RAML/OAS API Proxy

API Manager 2.x allows you to use a RAML/OAS type of API Proxy, for all your Mule 4 based proxies.

== Configuring your RAML/OAS API Proxy

. In API Manager, navigate to *Manage API* to create your API Instance. +
You can choose to either xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Creating an API instance by importing from Exchange] or xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[Creating an API instance by importing on API Manager].
. In *Asset Type*, select *RAML/OAS*.
. To configure your API Proxy for this API instance you need to select *Endpoint with Proxy* in the *Managing Type* fields.
.. Select your *Proxy Deployment Target*  from the available deployment targets displayed.
.. Select the *Check this box if you are managing this API in Mule 4 or above* check mark.
.. Type in your *Implementation URI*.
+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-85634.png[]
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
+
Versions 2.0,0 and later are the recommended version for OAS/RAML specs, since these versions add native OAS support. +
If you upload an OAS API specification to an API proxy version 1.0 or earlier, your API specification will be translated to RAML.
. Select your *Scheme* and *Port* number for your API proxy. +
Optionally, you can set up an *API Instance label* and a *Response Timeout*.
+
image::proxy-deploy-raml-oas-proxy-af2f8.png[]
. Click *Save*.

== See Also

* xref:proxy-advantages.adoc[Reviewing API Proxy Benefits and Impacts]
* xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[Building an HTTPS API Proxy]
* xref:proxy-latest-concept.adoc[Deploying an API Proxy]
