modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-urls-whitelist.adoc, before:

= Ports, IPs and hostnames whitelist

In your network, you may need to whitelist the hostnames and ports of various parts of Anypoint Platform to allow API Gateway capabilities of the runtime to communicate with the MuleSoft-managed online Anypoint Platform APIs and services.

The following table show you the ports or IPs/hostnames to add to your whitelists to allow communication between the Runtime Manager Agent and the Runtime Manager console:

[%header,cols="3*a"]
|===
|Plane |Host |Port
|*US*|*anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*mule-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*runtime-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*analytics-ingest.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*US*|*arm-auth-proxy.prod.cloudhub.io* |  443
|*US*|*data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*US*|*exchange2-asset-manager-kprod.s3.amazonaws.com* |  443
|*EU*|*eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*mule-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*analytics-ingest.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*EU*|*arm-auth-proxy.prod-eu.cloudhub.io* |  443
|*EU*|*data-authenticator.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*EU*|*exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com* |  443
|===

== See Also

* https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#ports-ips-and-hostnames-to-whitelist[Runtime Manager Agent ports, IPs and host whitelist]

Commit message:

Asciidoctor changes to runtime-urls-whitelist
Update table syntax
Update xref syntax
Add necessary asciidoc metadata headers

modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-urls-whitelist.adoc, after:

= Ports, IPs and hostnames whitelist
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

In your network, you may need to whitelist the hostnames and ports of various parts of Anypoint Platform to allow API Gateway capabilities of the runtime to communicate with the MuleSoft-managed online Anypoint Platform APIs and services.

The following table shows you the ports or IPs/hostnames to add to your whitelists to allow communication between the Runtime Manager Agent and the Runtime Manager console:

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="3+a"]
|===
|Plane |Host |Port
|*US*|*anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*mule-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*runtime-manager.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*US*|*analytics-ingest.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*US*|*arm-auth-proxy.prod.cloudhub.io* |  443
|*US*|*data-authenticator.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*US*|*exchange2-asset-manager-kprod.s3.amazonaws.com* |  443
|*EU*|*eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*mule-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*runtime-manager.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* | 443
|*EU*|*analytics-ingest.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*EU*|*arm-auth-proxy.prod-eu.cloudhub.io* |  443
|*EU*|*data-authenticator.eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com* |  443
|*EU*|*exchange2-asset-manager-kprod-eu.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com* |  443
|===

== See Also

* xref:runtime-manager::installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent.adoc#ports-ips-and-hostnames-to-whitelist[Runtime Manager Agent ports, IPs and host whitelist]
