modules/ROOT/pages/test-alert-task.adoc, before:

= To Test an Alert
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

This procedure describes how to test a request count alert. This procedure requires the following preparation:

. Design an API.
. Deploy a proxy of the API version to CloudHub.
. Apply the Rate Limiting Policy to the API as follows: Request Count greater than 1 for at least 1 consecutive minute.
+
. Add the alert described in the topic about how to add an alert.
. Call the API.
+
. Recall the API two more times (reload the page). Check that `API calls exceeded` appears if you called and recalled the API within the 1 minute period. Any additional page reload operations within the 1 minute period have no effect.
. Check that users, who you selected for email notification when you added the alert, actually receive email notifications.
. Check that the alert was resolved.

== See Also

* xref:add-api-alert-task.adoc[To Add an API Alert]
* link:/design-center/v/1.0/design-create-publish-api-specs[Create and Publish an API Specification or API Fragment]

Commit message:

import files for component api-manager@2.x

modules/ROOT/pages/test-alert-task.adoc, after:

= To Test an Alert
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

This procedure describes how to test a request count alert. This procedure requires the following preparation:

. Design an API.
. Publish the API to Exchange.
. In API Manager, manage the API from Exchange.
. Deploy a proxy of the API instance to CloudHub.
. Apply the Rate Limiting Policy to the API as follows: Request Count greater than 1 for at least 1 consecutive minute.
+
. Add the alert described in the topic about how to add an alert.
. Call the API.
+
. Recall the API two more times (reload the page). Check that `API calls exceeded` appears if you called and recalled the API within the 1 minute period. Any additional page reload operations within the 1 minute period have no effect.
. Check that users, who you selected for email notification when you added the alert, actually receive email notifications.
. Check that the alert was resolved.

== See Also

* xref:add-api-alert-task.adoc[To Add an API Alert]
* link:/design-center/v/1.0/design-create-publish-api-specs[Create and Publish an API Specification or API Fragment]
