modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshooting-archetype-error-when-creating-policy.adoc, before:

= Archectype error when creating a policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: alert

=== Archetype error when creating a policy
If you attempt to run Archetype from a directory with existing files when you create a policy, you might encounter a “Directory already exists” error. The error might differ based on the Maven version installed in your environment. 
The following code snippet shows an error generated for maven-archetype-plugin version 3.1.1: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
mvn -Parchetype-repository archetype:generate \
[INFO] Parameter: basedir, Value: C:\Users\32481\AnypointStudio\studio-workspace\mycustompolicy
[INFO] Parameter: package, Value: mule-policy
[INFO] Parameter: groupId, Value: 6344d2e6-eff9-4020-b792-719c463d5b92
[INFO] Parameter: artifactId, Value: ClientIdCustomPolicy
[INFO] Parameter: packageName, Value: mule-policy
[INFO] Parameter: version, Value: 1
[INFO]
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Skipping mycustompolicy
[INFO] This project has been banned from the build due to previous failures.
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD FAILURE
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time: 05:14 min
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-07-03T14:07:26+08:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ERROR] Failed to execute goal org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-archetype-plugin:3.1.1:generate (default-cli) on project mycustompolicy: Directory ClientIdCustomPolicy already exists - please run from a clean directory -> [Help 1]
[ERROR]
[ERROR] To see the full stack trace of the errors, re-run Maven with the -e switch.
[ERROR] Re-run Maven using the -X switch to enable full debug logging.
[ERROR]
[ERROR] For more information about the errors and possible solutions, please read the following articles:
[ERROR] [Help 1] http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MAVEN/MojoFailureException.
----

=== Solution

To resolve this issue, ensure that the directory from which you launch Archetype is empty.

=== See Also
*** xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Reviewing Alerts concepts]
*** xref:add-api-alert-task.adoc[Adding an API Alert]
*** xref:test-alert-task.adoc[Testing an API Alert]
*** xref:view-delete-alerts-task.adoc[Viewing and Deleting API Alerts]
*** xref:edit-enable-disable-alerts-task.adoc[Editing, Enabling, or Disabling API Alerts]

Commit message:

Removed the links
Fixed the links issue and aded a Cause section.

modules/ROOT/pages/troubleshooting-archetype-error-when-creating-policy.adoc, after:

= Archectype error when creating a policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: alert

If you attempt to run Archetype from a directory with existing files when you create a policy, you might encounter a “Directory already exists” error. The error might differ based on the Maven version installed in your environment. 
The following code snippet shows an error generated for maven-archetype-plugin version 3.1.1: 

[source,text,linenums]
----
mvn -Parchetype-repository archetype:generate \
[INFO] Parameter: basedir, Value: C:\Users\32481\AnypointStudio\studio-workspace\mycustompolicy
[INFO] Parameter: package, Value: mule-policy
[INFO] Parameter: groupId, Value: 6344d2e6-eff9-4020-b792-719c463d5b92
[INFO] Parameter: artifactId, Value: ClientIdCustomPolicy
[INFO] Parameter: packageName, Value: mule-policy
[INFO] Parameter: version, Value: 1
[INFO]
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Skipping mycustompolicy
[INFO] This project has been banned from the build due to previous failures.
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD FAILURE
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time: 05:14 min
[INFO] Finished at: 2019-07-03T14:07:26+08:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ERROR] Failed to execute goal org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-archetype-plugin:3.1.1:generate (default-cli) on project mycustompolicy: Directory ClientIdCustomPolicy already exists - please run from a clean directory -> [Help 1]
[ERROR]
[ERROR] To see the full stack trace of the errors, re-run Maven with the -e switch.
[ERROR] Re-run Maven using the -X switch to enable full debug logging.
[ERROR]
[ERROR] For more information about the errors and possible solutions, please read the following articles:
[ERROR] [Help 1] http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MAVEN/MojoFailureException.
----

=== Cause
This issue occurs because the directory in which  Archtype  is located contains additional files.
=== Solution

To resolve this issue, ensure that the directory from which you launch Archetype is empty.

=== See Also
*** xref:using-api-alerts.adoc[Reviewing Alerts concepts]
*** xref:add-api-alert-task.adoc[Adding an API Alert]
*** xref:test-alert-task.adoc[Testing an API Alert]
*** xref:view-delete-alerts-task.adoc[Viewing and Deleting API Alerts]
*** xref:edit-enable-disable-alerts-task.adoc[Editing, Enabling, or Disabling API Alerts]
