modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-configure-proxy.adoc, before:

//tag::intro[]

. <<select_proxy_type, Select Proxy Type>>
. <<select_and_configure_target_type, Select and Configure Proxy Type>>
. <<select_an_api, Select an API>>
. <<configure_options, Configure Options>>
. <<review_save_and_deploy, Review, Save, and Deploy>>

//end::intro[]
//tag::first-steps[]

[[select_proxy_type]]
= Select a Proxy Type

. In API Manager, click *Add API* and select *Add new API*.
. Select *Mule Gateway* as your runtime.
. Select *Deploy a proxy application* for *Proxy type*.
//end::first-steps[]
//tag::target-type-heading[]

[[select_and_configure_target_type]]
= Select and Configure a Target Type
//end::target-type-heading[]
//tag::target-type-number[]
. Select the *Target type* from the following options:
//end::target-type-number[]
//tag::target-type-bullet[]
Select the *Target type* from the following options:
//end::target-type-bullet[]

//tag::target-type[]
+
* *CloudHub*: Select this option if you want to use the Mule runtime hosted on the cloud by MuleSoft. The
CloudHub proxy includes a CPU with 0.1 vCores and a memory of 500 MB, by default.
.. Select the **Runtime version**.
.. Enter a **Proxy app name**.
* *Hybrid:* Select Hybrid if you have a Mule runtime running on an on-premises server that you want to use.
See xref:runtime-manager::servers-create.adoc[Register a server in Runtime Manager] for more information.
+
[NOTE]
--
If you are running an API with a self-managed server, use the xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[classic API creation flows]
to manage your API.
--
+
.. Select a target from the list or click **Add server**.
.. Enter a *Proxy app name*.

* **Runtime Fabric:** Select Runtime Fabric if you want to deploy API Proxies to a Mule runtime engine that is managed on Runtime Fabric.
See xref:runtime-fabric::proxy-deploy-runtime-fabric[Deploying API Proxies to Runtime Fabric] for more information.
.. Select a target from the list.
.. Select the **Runtime version**.
.. Enter a *Proxy app name*.
//end::target-type[]
//tag::service-mesh[]
* *Service Mesh:* Select Service Mesh to extend Anypoint Platform API Management capabilities to your
Istio service mesh through the deployment of a Mule Adapter.
+
NOTE: After adding the API on Anypoint Platform, you will need to bind it to a service using the Anypoint Service Mesh client. See xref:service-mesh::configure-service-mesh.adoc#methods-for-configuring-anypoint-service-mesh[Methods for Configuring Anypoint Service Mesh] for more information.

. Click *Next*.
//end::service-mesh[]
//tag::hybrid[]
. Select *Hybrid* for *Proxy deployment target*, then select the target server.
. Click *Next*.
//end::hybrid[]
//tag::mid-steps-heading[]

[[select_an_api]]
= Select an API
//end::mid-steps-heading[]
//tag::mid-steps[]

. Select an API from the following options:
* Click **Select API from Exchange** if you have an API shared with you through Exchange that you want to manage.
[arabic]
.. Click the API from the list under **Select API**. You can search for a specific API if needed.
.. Update the Asset type, API version, and Asset version if needed.

* Click **Create new API**.
[arabic]
.. Enter a name for the new API asset.
//end::mid-steps[]
//tag::asset-type-options[]
.. Select the **Asset type** from the following options:

** **REST API:** Select this option if you have a RAML or OAS API definition file you want to include for your asset.
+
Upload either a RAML or OAS file for your REST API.
** **HTTP API:** Select this option if you do not have an API definition file you want to include for your asset.
** **SOAP API:** Select this option if you have a WSDL API definition file or an external link to the file.
+
Upload a WSDL file for your SOAP API or add the link to the file. +
This option is not available for Flex Gateway runtime at this time.

.. Optionally, you can add an **AssetId** and customize the **Version** or **API Version** details by clicking **Advanced**.
. Click *Next*.
//end::asset-type-options[]
//tag::raml-oas[]
.. Select **REST API** as the **Asset type**.
.. Upload either a RAML or OAS file for your REST API.
+
NOTE: Anypoint API Manager supports OpenAPI Specification (OAS) 3.0, with the exception of the callback feature. To work around this issue, handle the callback outside of the Mule runtime engine domain or use an OAS 3.0 specification that does not use callbacks.

. Click *Next*.
//end::raml-oas[]
//tag::soap[]
.. Select **SOAP API** as the **Asset type**.
.. Select either *Upload a WSDL* or *Use an external link* as the method.
. Click *Next*.
//end::soap[]
//tag::mid-steps2[]

[[configure_options]]
= Configure Options

. Enter your *Implementation URI*. The Implementation URI is the URL to access the proxy or the API. For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. +
This is the only required field. For further details on the optional fields, see xref:configure-api-task.adoc[Configure an API Endpoint].
. If you want to enable SSL for inbound traffic:
** Select **HTTPS** for the **Scheme**. +
You should now see the **TLS Context for Inbound Traffic** field enabled.
** Select **Add TLS Context**.
*** Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS context from the **Secret group** drop-down.
*** Select your TLS context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the **TLS Context** drop-down.
. Enter the *Port* number for your API proxy.
. Select your *Client Provider*.
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
. Click *Add TLS Context* for *TLS Context for Outbound traffic*.
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down list.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
[NOTE]
If you can't see a context, check that you have the right permissions, as mentioned in <<Before You Begin>>.

. Click *Next*.
//end::mid-steps2[]
//tag::raml-oas-version[]
+
Versions 2.0.0 and later are the recommended versions for OAS or RAML specs, because these versions add native OAS support. +
If you upload an OAS API specification to an API proxy version 1.0 or earlier, your API specification will be translated to RAML.
+
//end::raml-oas-version[]
//tag::tls[]
. If you plan to have xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[HTTPS] communications, specify a TLS Context.
. Click *Next*.
//end::tls[]
//tag::last-steps-heading[]

[[review_save_and_deploy]]
= Review, Save, and Deploy
//end::last-steps-heading[]
//tag::last-steps[]

. Review your selections and edit them if necessary.
. If you are ready to deploy, click **Save & Deploy**. Otherwise, you can select **Save**, to save the API Instance
and deploy it at a later time.
+
// end::last-steps[]

Commit message:

added how to reconfigure versions of proxies and APIs

modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/task-configure-proxy.adoc, after:

//tag::intro[]

. <<select_proxy_type, Select Proxy Type>>
. <<select_and_configure_target_type, Select and Configure Proxy Type>>
. <<select_an_api, Select an API>>
. <<configure_options, Configure Options>>
. <<review_save_and_deploy, Review, Save, and Deploy>>

//end::intro[]
//tag::first-steps[]

[[select_proxy_type]]
= Select a Proxy Type

. In API Manager, click *Add API* and select *Add new API*.
. Select *Mule Gateway* as your runtime.
. Select *Deploy a proxy application* for *Proxy type*.
//end::first-steps[]
//tag::target-type-heading[]

[[select_and_configure_target_type]]
= Select and Configure a Target Type
//end::target-type-heading[]
//tag::target-type-number[]
. Select the *Target type* from the following options:
//end::target-type-number[]
//tag::target-type-bullet[]
Select the *Target type* from the following options:
//end::target-type-bullet[]

//tag::target-type[]
+
* *CloudHub*: Select this option if you want to use the Mule runtime hosted on the cloud by MuleSoft. The
CloudHub proxy includes a CPU with 0.1 vCores and a memory of 500 MB, by default.
.. Select the **Runtime version**.
.. Enter a **Proxy app name**.
* *Hybrid:* Select Hybrid if you have a Mule runtime running on an on-premises server that you want to use.
See xref:runtime-manager::servers-create.adoc[Register a server in Runtime Manager] for more information.
+
[NOTE]
--
If you are running an API with a self-managed server, use the xref:manage-exchange-api-task.adoc[classic API creation flows]
to manage your API.
--
+
.. Select a target from the list or click **Add server**.
.. Enter a *Proxy app name*.

* **Runtime Fabric:** Select Runtime Fabric if you want to deploy API Proxies to a Mule runtime engine that is managed on Runtime Fabric.
See xref:runtime-fabric::proxy-deploy-runtime-fabric[Deploying API Proxies to Runtime Fabric] for more information.
.. Select a target from the list.
.. Select the **Runtime version**.
.. Enter a *Proxy app name*.
//end::target-type[]
//tag::service-mesh[]
* *Service Mesh:* Select Service Mesh to extend Anypoint Platform API Management capabilities to your
Istio service mesh through the deployment of a Mule Adapter.
+
NOTE: After adding the API on Anypoint Platform, you will need to bind it to a service using the Anypoint Service Mesh client. See xref:service-mesh::configure-service-mesh.adoc#methods-for-configuring-anypoint-service-mesh[Methods for Configuring Anypoint Service Mesh] for more information.

. Click *Next*.
//end::service-mesh[]
//tag::hybrid[]
. Select *Hybrid* for *Proxy deployment target*, then select the target server.
. Click *Next*.
//end::hybrid[]
//tag::mid-steps-heading[]

[[select_an_api]]
= Select an API
//end::mid-steps-heading[]
//tag::mid-steps[]

. Select an API from the following options:
* Click **Select API from Exchange** if you have an API shared with you through Exchange that you want to manage.
[arabic]
.. Click the API from the list under **Select API**. You can search for a specific API if needed.
.. Update the Asset type, API version, and Asset version if needed.

* Click **Create new API**.
[arabic]
.. Enter a name for the new API asset.
//end::mid-steps[]
//tag::asset-type-options[]
.. Select the **Asset type** from the following options:

** **REST API:** Select this option if you have a RAML or OAS API definition file you want to include for your asset.
+
Upload either a RAML or OAS file for your REST API.
** **HTTP API:** Select this option if you do not have an API definition file you want to include for your asset.
** **SOAP API:** Select this option if you have a WSDL API definition file or an external link to the file.
+
Upload a WSDL file for your SOAP API or add the link to the file. +
This option is not available for Flex Gateway runtime at this time.

.. Optionally, you can add an **AssetId** and customize the **Version** or **API Version** details by clicking **Advanced**.
. Click *Next*.
//end::asset-type-options[]
//tag::raml-oas[]
.. Select **REST API** as the **Asset type**.
.. Upload either a RAML or OAS file for your REST API.
+
NOTE: Anypoint API Manager supports OpenAPI Specification (OAS) 3.0, with the exception of the callback feature. To work around this issue, handle the callback outside of the Mule runtime engine domain or use an OAS 3.0 specification that does not use callbacks.

. Click *Next*.
//end::raml-oas[]
//tag::soap[]
.. Select **SOAP API** as the **Asset type**.
.. Select either *Upload a WSDL* or *Use an external link* as the method.
. Click *Next*.
//end::soap[]
//tag::mid-steps2[]

[[configure_options]]
= Configure Options

. Enter your *Implementation URI*. The Implementation URI is the URL to access the proxy or the API. For example, you can use the URL of your API asset in Exchange. +
This is the only required field. For further details on the optional fields, see xref:configure-api-task.adoc[Configure an API Endpoint].
. If you want to enable SSL for inbound traffic:
** Select **HTTPS** for the **Scheme**. +
You should now see the **TLS Context for Inbound Traffic** field enabled.
** Select **Add TLS Context**.
*** Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS context from the **Secret group** drop-down.
*** Select your TLS context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the **TLS Context** drop-down.
. Enter the *Port* number for your API proxy.
. Select your *Client Provider*.
. Click *Advanced Options*.
. In *Proxy Version*, select *latest*. +
This value ensures that your API proxy uses the latest released proxy version.
If you update proxy version in exchange, return to this step to reconfigure your proxy to the latest version.
. Click *Add TLS Context* for *TLS Context for Outbound traffic*.
.. Select the secret group where you hosted your TLS Context from the *Secret Group* drop-down list.
.. Select your TLS Context for your HTTPS API Proxy from the *TLS Context* drop-down.
+
[NOTE]
If you can't see a context, check that you have the right permissions, as mentioned in <<Before You Begin>>.

. Click *Next*.
//end::mid-steps2[]
//tag::raml-oas-version[]
+
Versions 2.0.0 and later are the recommended versions for OAS or RAML specs, because these versions add native OAS support. +
If you upload an OAS API specification to an API proxy version 1.0 or earlier, your API specification will be translated to RAML.
+
//end::raml-oas-version[]
//tag::tls[]
. If you plan to have xref:building-https-proxy.adoc[HTTPS] communications, specify a TLS Context.
. Click *Next*.
//end::tls[]
//tag::last-steps-heading[]

[[review_save_and_deploy]]
= Review, Save, and Deploy
//end::last-steps-heading[]
//tag::last-steps[]

. Review your selections and edit them if necessary.
. If you are ready to deploy, click **Save & Deploy**. Otherwise, you can select **Save**, to save the API Instance
and deploy it at a later time.
+
// end::last-steps[]
